# Discord API

## Setup

### Getting an API

In order to get an API, you must have an account on the [Discord development portal](https://discord.com/developers/applications).

Select "New Application", enter name

Go over to the left menu, select Bot

Click "Add Bot", Select "Yes, do it"

Under Token, click "Copy"

In the same directory as the bot.py file, create an new file named .env

This file stores all the enviromental variables to be used in the bot file

Within the .env file insert this line: "DISCORD_TOKEN=your-bot-token"
also add "DISCORD_GUILD={your-server-name}"

If the bot.py does not exist, download the [Discord Bot](https://realpython.com/how-to-make-a-discord-bot-python/)

Back in the Developmental Portal, click OAuth, tick the bot checkmark

Below, select the permissions for the given bot, copy the AuthenticationURL generated by Discord. 

Place this url in a browser, then select the server the bot will be a part of. A new server would have to be created if desired.

In order to enable the bot in Discord, type the command "python DisBot.py" or "python3 DisBot.py" in a terminal or command prompt.

The command will output that it is connected to Discord or it will output an error. From there the terminal does not have to be touched.

### Dependencies
You would need to install two python packages

1. Discord
2. dotenv

Install them by opening an terminal or command prompt and typing command
"pip install -U python-dotenv"
"pip install discord.py"


Alternatively, these commands can be used if more than one python version is installed
"pip3 install -U python-dotenv"
"pip3 install discord.py"

## Usage

### Commands

- learn!
- rolldice!

### Command Outputs

- learn! will output any random facts may or may not have been known
- rolldice! will institute an dice roll where it will randomize three times and will output the 4th randomized number